#summary Day 14: Adding titles to links
#labels about-accessibility,is-article

You are here: [Welcome Home] > [Articles Articles] > [ArticlesAccessibility Accessibility] > [ArticleAccessibility 30 days to a more accessible web site] > *Day 14: Adding titles to links*

What with the web being all about links, you would think more people would know about the `title` attribute, but I rarely see it.  For those who don't know, all links can have a title, specified by the `title` attribute of the `<a>` tag.  This is in addition to whatever link text you specify.  The title of a link generally shows up as a tooltip in visual browsers, but it can be presented in non-visual browsers as well.

Not all links should have titles.  If the link text is the name of an article, don't add a title; the link text itself is descriptive enough.  But if you read the link text by itself, out of context, and can't figure out what it points to, add a title.

=== Who benefits? ===

  * [ArticleAccessibility01 Jackie] benefits.  [http://www.freedomscientific.com/fs_products/software_jaws.asp JAWS] has an option to read the title of a link along with the link text.  (This option is not on by default.  To activate it, Jackie pressed <kbd>INSERT+V</kbd> to bring up the JAWS verbosity options window, then changed "Text links verbosity" to "Alt tag or title".)
  * [ArticleAccessibility02 Michael] benefits.  When he moves his cursor over a link in [http://www.opera.com/ Opera], it displays the title of the link in the status bar and as a tooltip.  This lets him decide whether he wants to spend precious bandwidth following the link.
  * [ArticleAccessibility04 Lillian] benefits.  When she moves her cursor over the link in Internet Explorer, it displays the title of the link as a tooltip.
  * [ArticleAccessibility05 Marcus] benefits.  When Marcus presses "<kbd>l</kbd>", [http://www.fdisk.com/doslynx/lynxport.htm Lynx] displays a list of links on the current page.  The list includes the title of each link, if present.

=== How to do it ===

On each link where the link text itself might not be sufficient for the reader to decide whether to click the link, add a `title` attribute.  Examples:

  * On my personal weblog, I used to have a link to site statistics.  The link text was simply "Statistics", but the `title` attribute gives some further information:
{{{
<a title="referrers and other visitor statistics" href="/stats/">Statistics</a>
}}}
  * I also used to have a link to my book, [http://diveintopython.org/ Dive Into Python], which looked like this:
{{{
<a title="Free Python book for experienced programmers" href="http://diveintopython.org/">Dive Into Python</a>
}}}
  * [http://diveintomark.org/archives/2002/02/20/britney_britney_britney Do not go overboard with the `title` attribute].  All things in moderation.

=== Further reading ===

  * Jakob Nielsen: [http://www.useit.com/alertbox/980111.html Using Link Titles to Help Users Predict Where They Are Going].

----

Next: [ArticleAccessibility15 Day 15: Defining keyboard shortcuts]
Back: [ArticleAccessibility13 Day 13: Using real links]

