#summary Day 11: Skipping over navigation links
#labels about-accessibility,is-article

You are here: [Welcome Home] > [Articles Articles] > [ArticlesAccessibility Accessibility] > [ArticleAccessibility 30 days to a more accessible web site] > *Day 11: Skipping over navigation links*

If you didn't manage to hack your templates to [ArticleAccessibility10 present your main content first], here's a compromise: provide an link to skip over your navigation links.  It's not a perfect solution (presenting your main content first is better), but it's an acceptable compromise that many sites use.

This "skip link" is just a regular `<a>` tag, like any other link, but we'll use CSS to hide it from visual browsers like Internet Explorer and Netscape.  It won't affect your page layout at all; it will be completely invisible.

=== Who benefits? ===

  * [ArticleAccessibility05 Marcus] benefits.  When he visits your page, [http://www.fdisk.com/doslynx/lynxport.htm Lynx] will display the link and allow him to skip over your navigation bar and go straight to your main content.  See [ArticleAccessibility10 Day 10: Presenting your main content first] for an example of why this is so important.
  * [ArticleAccessibility01 Jackie] benefits.  When she visits your page, [http://www.freedomscientific.com/fs_products/software_jaws.asp JAWS] will read the skip link and allow her to skip over your navigation bar and go straight to your main content.

=== How to do it ===

First, use [http://www.delorie.com/web/lynxview.html Lynx Viewer] on your own home page to determine whether your navigation bar is presented before your main content.  If your main content comes first, this tip does not apply to you.

Insert the skip link at the top of your HTML page, immediately after the `<body>` tag.  It should point to the first piece of "real" content.  (This can be a container element such as a `<div>`.)

{{{
<body>
<a class="skiplink" href="#content">Skip to main content</a>

<!-- navigation links -->

<div id="content">
<h1>My Awesome Site</h1>
<p>Blah blah blah
}}}

Now define a CSS rule for the skip link, to make them invisible to visual browsers.

{{{
.skiplink, .skiplink:hover, .skiplink:visited {
  position: absolute;
  left: 0;
  top: -500px;
  width: 1px;
  height: 1px;
  overflow: hidden;
}

.skiplink:active, .skiplink:focus {
  position: static;
  width: auto;
  height: auto;
}
}}}

By default, the link will be positioned off-screen (`top:-500px`) and will not affect affect your page layout or text flow (`position:absolute` and `overflow:hidden`).  However, it is still technically visible (as opposed to being set as `display:none`), so screen readers will read it as soon as the page loads.  (Some CSS-aware screen readers will not speak text that is set to `display:none`.)

Here's the neat part: besides being a good solution for screen readers, this is also a good solution for mobility-impaired keyboard-only users.  Because the skip link is the first link on the page, pressing `Tab` after the page loads will set focus to the skip link.  And here the second set of CSS rules take effect -- using the little-used `:active` and `:focus` pseudo-classes, we change the position and dimensions of the skip link so that it becomes visible temporarily.  Pressing `Enter` will follow the skip link and move the focus to the main content.  But if the user actually wants to go to the navigation links, she can do so -- pressing `Tab` again will move off the skip link, which will magically disappear again and return the page layout to normal.

Meanwhile, the vast majority of your (mouse-using) audience will never see the skip link, since it is positioned off-screen and is therefore unclickable.  So this is the best of all worlds:

  * Screen reader users will hear the skip link as soon as the page loads, and jump directly to the main content
  * Keyboard users can tab to the skip link in one keystroke, and jump directly to the main content
  * Sighted users will never see the skip link

You should include this kind of skip link on every page of your web site, so add it to all your templates.

=== Further reading ===

  * WebAIM: [http://www.webaim.org/techniques/skipnav/ "Skip Navigation" links]
  * WebAIM: [http://www.webaim.org/techniques/css/invisiblecontent/ Invisible Content Just For Screen Reader Users]

----

Next: [ArticleAccessibility12 Day 12: Using color safely]
Back: [ArticleAccessibility10 Day 10: Presenting your main content first]

