#summary HOWTO format the <del> and <ins> tags
#labels about-html,is-article

= Introduction =

`<del>` and `<ins>` can be used to show multiple revisions of the same text, such as when a ~~speling~~ *spelling* mistake has been corrected. But how should these be formatted to be properly semantic and readable at the same time? Here are some suggestions.

= Options =

== A. Use a space character between the tags ==
Example:
{{{
<p><del>Speling</del> <ins>Spelling</ins> is hard.</p>
}}}

Advantages: Simple.

Disadvantages: This is not semantically correct, since the space between the elements is not part of the text.

== B. Insert a space character using CSS ==
Example:
{{{
del + ins:before {content: ' ';}
...
<p><del>Speling</del><ins>Spelling</ins> is hard.</p>
}}}

Advantage: Semantic.

Disadvantages: The inserted space character is displayed with the formatting of the `<ins>` element, so it looks like it's part of it. This conveys the wrong semantics (at least visually).

== C. Insert a margin between the elements ==
Example:
{{{
del + ins {margin-left: 0.3em;}
...
<p><del>Speling</del><ins>Spelling</ins> is hard.</p>
}}}

Advantage: Semantic.

Disadvantages: The width of the space character can depend on the browser implementation and the font, so make sure you check the results.

= Recommendation =
If you have control over both the markup and the style sheet of the page, C should give a semantic solution that looks good. Otherwise you might have to go with A.

= Further reading =
[http://l0b0.net/blog/?p=107 Source]

