#summary input autocomplete attribute
#labels about-html,is-html-attribute

You are here: [Welcome Home] > [HTMLReference HTML Reference] > [HTMLElements Elements] > [InputElement <input> element] > *autocomplete attribute*

== Usage ==

When an input element's resulting autocompletion state is on, the user agent may store the value entered by the user so that if the user returns to the page, the UA can prefill the form. Otherwise, the user agent should not remember the control's value.

A user agent may allow the user to override the resulting autocompletion state and set it to always on, always allowing values to be remembered and prefilled), or always off, never remembering values. However, the ability to override the resulting autocompletion state to on should not be trivially accessible, as there are significant security implications for the user if all values are always remembered, regardless of the site's preferences.

== Values ==

The autocomplete  attribute is an enumerated attribute. The attribute has three states. The `on`  keyword maps to the on state, and the `off` keyword maps to the off  state. The attribute may also be omitted. The missing value default is the default  state.

== Elements ==

The `autocomplete` attribute can be used on the following elements:

  * [FormElement form]
  * [InputElement input]

== Browser compatibility ==

[ArticleBrowserCompatibilityLegend Compatibility table legend]

|| *Test* || *IE8* || *IE7* || *IE6* || *FF3* || *FF2* || *Saf3* || *Op9* || *Chrome* ||
|| [http://doctype.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tests/html/attributes/input-autocomplete-off-reflection-test.html input.autocomplete reflects <input autocomplete="off">] || Y || Y || Y || N || N || N || Y || N ||
|| [http://doctype.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tests/html/attributes/input-autocomplete-on-reflection-test.html input.autocomplete reflects <input autocomplete="on">] || Y || Y || Y || N || N || N || Y || N ||

== Further reading ==

  * [http://blog.whatwg.org/this-week-day-in-html-5-episode-23 This Week in HTML 5 - Episode 23]

